---
title: "The New Gen Sword"
excerpt: "Coding is the new sword in a world racing toward the future. Through events like Compose Camp, CODEFLUENZA’22, and Hacktoberfest, CTAE Coders Carousel empowers students to learn, compete, and innovate. The goal? To build skills, confidence, and a tech-driven future. 🚀"
coverImage: "/assets/blog/the-new-gen-sword/cover.jpg"
date: "2022-10-21T00:00:00.000Z"
author:
  name: Navya Srivastav
  picture: "/assets/blog/authors/navyayy.png"
ogImage:
  url: "/assets/blog/the-new-gen-sword/cover.jpg"
---

## The New Gen Sword

The web as I envisaged it, we have not seen it yet. Nobody wants to be an average man in a world that is rapidly moving into the future because the future is still so much bigger than the past. Everyone strives to become the one who can use their sword to dominate the world, which in new generation, is coding.
Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp, Discord. Sounds like comfort to you? We can never really imagine our life without them, can we? Did it ever hit you that these apps have become a major part of your life and aren’t you curious to know how these apps have impacted million lives? To answer such questions,CTAE Coders Carousel, the Official Programming Club, CTAE in collaboration with Google Developer Students Club, CTAE and Matrix.io have organized a few events.

Imparting the learnings: A month-long, Compose Camp was organized on Kotlin - the most trending Android Development Language. As we all know, the future of Android Development is quite promising. So, in accordance with that, we organized four sessions both in online and offline mode where our speaker, Mr. Athrav Mehta, Android Campus Facilitator disseminated his learnings in the most interactive way. These sessions were for absolute beginners, intermediates and advanced learners, so it appears to be friendly for all “Jose Mourinho” out there. As we had a quiz at the beginning of the event that was based more on rational thinking than programming expertise, it became fairly exciting for all the attendees and aroused in them, a great amount of confidence.

The goal of the community's yearly Android Compose Camp is to make coding more enjoyable for our engineers. We held our first offline session in the CSE Department's Seminar Hall on September 17, 2022, and then three online sessions on October 7, 8, and 9, 2022, respectively. We began by studying fundamental Kotlin functional syntaxes, and by the end of our journey we had learned to built a Dice Roller App. Interacting with fellow developers, conveying your skills and coordinating with the team, are some of the important learnings of this camp.
Learning Experience: Getting a job in the Top Multi-National Companies is a dream for every college student, but for a student studying in a third-tier college, it’s grasping at straws. Matrix.io in collaboration with CTAE Coders Carousel conducted a tech podcast on 20 August 2022 with Ms. Hinkal Jain who is a Software Development Engineer II at Walmart Global Tech. She is a 2022 graduate of the College of Technology and Engineering, Udaipur. In the podcast, she shared her experience that how she prepared for the coding rounds and gave tips for clearing the interview. She explained the importance of Project Development along with Data Structures and Algorithms, busting the myth that Competitive Programming is not necessary to crack the interviews. She shared some vital resources which can help even in the last-minute preparations for the interviews.

Competitions play a vital role for students to enhance and showcase their skills which can add up to their resume, helping them to get their first internship opportunities masking up their prior work experiences.  

Matrix.io in collaboration with CTAE Coders Carousel conducted a tech podcast with Mr. Garvit Chouhan, CEO, 9AI, who won 9+ hackathons till now. He listed the important considerations that must be made during a hackathon. How to approach, organise, and carry out a specific idea. How to make your solution stand out from the competition in the hackathon and become the chosen one. In addition to this, before getting started with the Hackathon, he divided the work into teams based on the teammates' skills and provided strategy advices.
Hello October! Or we should call it Hacktober? Hacktoberfest is a month-long celebration of open-source software by DigitalOcean that encourages participation in giving back to the open-source community. Developers get involved by completing pull requests, participating in events, and donating to open-source projects.
During this event, anyone can contribute to Open Source projects of Big Tech Companies like Chromium of Google, the famous code editor VS Code of Microsoft and much more projects. It can be a good way of practicing or kickstarting your preparations for Google Summer of Code (GSoC) and also a great opportunity to earn swags.

Competing with fellows: CODEFLUENZA’22, a day-long event organized by CTAE Coders Carousel in collaboration with  Google Developer Students Club, CTAE and Matrix.io in accordance with Git, Open Source and Hacktoberfest. Our Chief Guest of the day was Mr. Praveen Kumar Purshothaman, a Full Stack Javascript Specialist and a YouTuber with 10K subscribers. Convener of the day: Dr. P.K. Singh, Dean CTAE followed by our guests: Dr. Naveen Chaudhary, HOD CSE and Dr. Vikramaditya Dave, HOD EE. The event was conducted in two rounds viz. Quiz and Competitive Programming. Competing with fellow mates is the objective of the event and the evaluation of winners was purely based on the scores obtained from both rounds. Starting with the introductory words of our guests, we had our rounds followed by the session of our Chief Guest, who imparted us with the knowledge of Hacktoberfest and Git, at the end of the event we had a prize distribution ceremony. Our Winner of the day, Mr. Raghav Kapil, 2nd year CSE followed by Mr. Sujal Sahu, 3rd year CSE, and Mr. Hardik Jain, 2nd year AI-DS as first and second runner-ups.
The event made a success through the contribution of whole team led by the coordinators: Mr. Subin S K, 3rd year CSE, GDSC Lead 2022 and Mr. Devottam Vaishnav, 3rd year CSE. Held in the Conference Hall, EE Department, this event gave us a box full of learnings and memories. Competing should always be taken on the positive side of the coin as it’s ok not to win the first time, but the billion-dollar question is, are you going to stay consistent, no matter what?
